---
title: Feed Support
icon: rss
category:
  - Advanced
tag:
  - Advanced
  - Feed
---

The theme adds feed support using [`vuepress-plugin-feed2`][feed2].

::: info

`vuepress-theme-hope` provides `plugins.feed` in theme options to `vuepress-plugin-feed2`.

:::

<!-- more -->

## Enable Feed Output

The `vuepress-plugin-feed2` plugin can generate feed files in the following three formats for you:

- Atom 1.0
- JSON 1.1
- RSS 2.0

::: tip

Atom and JSON are provided to improve more feed software adaptation.

Please use RSS if possible.

:::

Please set `plugins.feed.atom`, `plugins.feed.json` or `plugins.feed.rss` to `true` in theme options according to the format you want to generate.

::: tip

Of course you can enable them all. This is not a choose 1 from 3 situation.

:::

Considering that rare people stick to feed now, this plugin provides a minimal configuration to adjust the automatic generation of detailed feed files. Also it allows you to freely define the output content of the feed.

## Channel Settings

You can customize the feed channel information by setting the `plugins.feed.channel` in theme options.

We recommend the following settings:

- Convert the date of creating the feed to ISOString and write it into `channel.pubDate`
- The update period of the content set in `channel.ttl` (unit: minutes)
- Set copyright information via `channel.copyright`, or fallback to `copyright` in theme options
- Set the channel author via `channel.author`, or fallback to `author` in theme options

::: tip Default channel settings

- The title and description of the channel is the name and description of the site by default

- The link of the channel and the last update time will be automatically generated by the plugin.

:::

For detailed options and their default values, see [Feed Channel Config][feed2-channel]

## Generation Control

### Default Generation

By default, all articles are added to the feed stream.

For the content read by default, see [Configuration → Item Control][feed2-item]

### Customize Feed item

You can control how feed item is generated in specific article by configuring the `feed` option in frontmatter.

For detailed options and their default values, see [Configuration → Project Settings][feed2-item].

### Customize Feed Generation

You can take full control of feed items generation by configuring the `plugins.feed.getter`.

For detailed options and their default values, see [Configuration → Feed Getter][feed2-getter].

### I18n Config

The plugin generates separate feeds for each language.

You can provide different settings for different languages via `plugins.feed.locales`.

[feed2]: https://vuepress-theme-hope.github.io/v2/feed/
[feed2-channel]: https://vuepress-theme-hope.github.io/v2/feed/config/channel.html
[feed2-item]: https://vuepress-theme-hope.github.io/v2/feed/config/item.html
[feed2-getter]: https://vuepress-theme-hope.github.io/v2/feed/config/getter.html
