---
title: Page Config
icon: config
---

You can have individual control over each feed item generation by configuring Frontmatter for each page.

## Addition and Remove

By default, all articles are added to the feed stream. To remove specific pages from the feed, you can set `feed: false` in frontmatter.

## Information read by default

`page.except` and the original content of the page are read during feed item generation.

The frontmatter options read in feed item generation and their corresponding meanings are as follows:

### title

- Type: `string`

Automatically generated by VuePress, defaults to the h1 content of the page

### description

- Type: `string`

Description of the page

### date

- Type: `Date`

Date when the page was published

### article

- Type: `boolean`

Whether the page is an article

> If this is set to `false`, the page will not be included in the final feed.

### copyright

- Type: `string`

Page copyright information

### image

- Type: `string`

Page cover/share image, should be full link or absolute link.

## FrontMatter Options

### feed.title

- Type: `string`

The title of the feed item

### feed.description

- Type: `string`

Description of the feed item

### feed.content

- Type: `string`

The content of the feed item

### feed.author

- Type: `FeedAuthor[] | FeedAuthor`

The author of the feed item

::: details FeedAuthor format

```ts
interface FeedAuthor {
  /**
   * Author name
   */
  name?: string;

  /**
   * Author email
   */
  email?: string;

  /**
   * Author site
   *
   * @description json format only
   */
  url?: string;

  /**
   * Author avatar
   *
   * @description json format only
   */
  avatar?: string;
}
```

:::

### feed.contributor

- Type: `FeedContributor[] | FeedContributor`

Contributors to feed item

::: details FeedContributor format

```ts
interface FeedContributor {
  /**
   * Author name
   */
  name?: string;

  /**
   * Author email
   */
  email?: string;

  /**
   * Author site
   *
   * @description json format only
   */
  url?: string;

  /**
   * Author avatar
   *
   * @description json format only
   */
  avatar?: string;
}
```

:::

### feed.guid

- Type: `string`

The identifier of feed item, used to identify the feed item.

::: note

You should make sure this is globally unique.

:::
