---
title: Guide
icon: lightbulb
---

## Usage

The `vuepress-plugin-feed2` plugin can generate feed files in the following three formats for you:

- Atom 1.0
- JSON 1.1
- RSS 2.0

::: tip Please use RSS if possible. Atom and JSON are only provided for best compatibility.

:::

Please set `atom`, `json` or `rss` to `true` in the plugin options according to the format you want to generate.

::: tip You can enable them all. This is not a "1 of 3" choice.

:::

Considering that rare people stick to feed now, this plugin provides a minimal configuration to adjust the automatic generation of detailed feed files. Also, it allows you to freely define the output content of the feed.

To correctly generate the link address, you need to set `hostname` (deployment domain name) in the plugin options,

## Channel settings

You can customize the feed channel information by setting the `channel` option.

We recommend the following settings:

- Convert the date of creating the feed to ISOString and write it into `channel.pubDate`
- The update period of the content set in `channel.ttl` (unit: minutes)
- Set copyright information via `channel.copyright`
- Set the channel author via `channel.author`.

::: tip Default channel settings

- By default, the title and description of the channel is the name and description of the site.
- The link of the channel and the last update time will be automatically generated by the plugin.

:::

For detailed options and their default values, see [Configuration → Channel Settings](./config/channel.md)

## Generation Control

### Default Generation

By default, all articles are added to the feed stream.

For the content read by default, see [Configuration → Item Control](./config/item.md)

### Customize Feed Item

You can control how feed item is generated in specific article by configuring the `feed` option in frontmatter.

For detailed options and their default values, see [Configuration → Project Settings](./config/item.md).

### Customize Feed Generation

You can take full control of feed items generation by configuring the `getter` in the plugin options.

For detailed options and their default values, see [Configuration → Feed Getter](./config/getter.md).

### I18n Config

The plugin generates separate feeds for each language.

You can provide different settings for different languages via `locales` in the plugin options.
